### Texas Tech Support Scams

These scams begin with a report via phone or through a computer that
viruses have been detected. These scams request a call to a number to
grant access to a computer for the company they are masquerading as. The
TAG recommends using extreme skepticism when being contacted by a
computer or phone company in this way. They remind Texans that
legitimate tech support and computer companies do not contact their
customers randomly or at all for matters such as these.

### Texas Voice Phishing Scams

Phishing is when a scammer contacts a potential victim through email,
mail, texts or calls asking for a social security number, a bank
account, or passwords. Voice phishing relies on the call receiver
trusting the scammer enough to reveal information about themselves. They
typically claim to companies of repute, and that they need the number to
secure the account. The TAG advises Texans to NEVER give their personal
information over the phone when the request for such information comes
unsolicited.

### What is a Texas RoboCall?

A robocall is an automated or pre-recorded call that relies on clever
timing to convince the call receiver that the person on the other end of
the line is a real human. They are most commonly associated with
telemarketing and political awareness campaigns but are some of the most
common phone scam tactics. For this reason, extra caution should be
taken during election seasons, and holiday seasons when these types of
calls are used by legitimate organizations, making them extremely
difficult to differentiate.

In 2019, Texas’ Attorney General Ken Paxton announced an initiative, in
conjunction with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to <ins>[start a
crackdown on illegal
robocalls](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.texasattorneygeneral.gov/news/releases/ag-paxton-ftc-announce-new-crackdown-illegal-robocalls&sa=D&ust=1596882378636000&usg=AOvVaw24fKrpZfjSTeR74ambKEc-).
This initiative, called</ins> “[Operation <ins>Call it
Quits,</ins>](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/blogs/business-blog/2019/06/operation-call-it-quits-theres-no-quit-our-fight-against&sa=D&ust=1596882378637000&usg=AOvVaw3fe-setv2rBQuJSxiK-Tax)”
<ins>would include almost 100 actions that target robocall operations
countrywide.</ins>

### What are Texas Emergency Scams?

The TAG may refer to this type of scam as “Grandparent Scams” as they
primarily prey on the elderly. These scams claim to be for family
members or friends who are in dire need. These types of scams are heavy
users of caller ID spoofing to help sell the idea that the call is
coming from someone the call receiver knows. The scammer may even
disguise their voice or claim to sound different due to emotional stress
or injury. Advice for avoiding or detecting this scam is to stay calm,
and ask questions. If not convinced, try to reach out to the known
person in question using normal means such as a phone number or social
media contact to determine if they are in trouble, as the call claims.

### What are Texas IRS Scams?

Texas IRS or government scams are particularly dangerous during tax
season, as that is when potential victims would expect a call from the
IRS. The call claims to be an IRS agent, and further, claims that back
taxes are owed. This is usually made in conjunction with the threat of
an audit. The IRS is aware of the scam, and Variations of this scam exist, and these usually claim to be local law
enforcement calling about an outstanding warrant. In either case, the
scammer is using fear as a method for convincing the potential victim to
reveal information or pay money.

### What is Phone Spoofing?

This tactic has come to light more prominently as phone scammers have
increasingly used Caller ID Spoofing to trick the receiving handset into
displaying the number of someone else, or even someone who the receiver
is familiar with. The scenario of an individual’s child, sibling,
parent, or trusted professional calling only for them to discover a
robocall is more common than it once was.
Typical phone spoofs involve a scammer tricking a caller ID into
displaying a local number or the number of a trusted (government)
organization to their intended victim. This helps sell the legitimacy of
the offer before the person even answers the phone, and is particularly
effective when used against the uninformed or the elderly. Common spoofs
as of 2019 include:

1.  A scammer, posing as a bank or credit card company, to gain trust
    and steal credit card information
2.  Holiday charity scammers who pose as charitable organizations and
    ask for donations, particularly around the holidays when legitimate
    organizations are doing the same
3.  <ins>[FCC Call Center spoofed to Chinese consulate
    calls](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.fcc.gov/fcc-alerts-consumers-about-spoofing-1-888-call-fcc-phone-number&sa=D&ust=1596882378638000&usg=AOvVaw1DeqOAlN8yvAj-OulQOC3V) that
    rely on confusion to convince the people they call, whether that is
    a Chinese citizen living in the US, or otherwise. The FCC recommends
    hanging up immediately if the number displayed shows (888) 255-5322
    or (888) CALL-FCC</ins>
4.  <ins>[Medicare scams that target older
    Americans.](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.fcc.gov/older-americans-and-medicare-card-scams&sa=D&ust=1596882378638000&usg=AOvVaw3_-qCPClOgBieG_eCv5SLX) These
    are typically robocalls that are targeted specifically at the
    elderly to gain control of their medicare or health insurance</ins>
5.  Health insurance scams during the open enrollment season. This is
    particularly effective between Nov 1 and Dec 15 during open
    enrollment for the Affordable Health Care Act.

There is little one can do to avoid phone scamming, spoofing or
robocalls, but there are ways to detect them. The FCC offers <ins>[simple
guidelines](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/avoid_spoofing_scams_english.pdf&sa=D&ust=1596882378639000&usg=AOvVaw3rlWHFjKE3DMVav6IcxKez) for
detecting a scam and how to react when one is found. They also offer an</ins>
[online consumer complaint
form](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://consumercomplaints.fcc.gov/hc/en-us/requests/new?ticket_form_id%3D39744&sa=D&ust=1596882378639000&usg=AOvVaw3FyK-LWBRMTGvVGk3Pt6z2) to
report the number in question. Generally, everyone is advised to avoid
taking or returning calls from unknown numbers.
